
The plot has the following options which can be selected.

**Models**

- **Nonparametric Spline (*npS*):** Simple linear spline connecting the mean responses. 
- **Nonparametric Monotonic (*npM*):** Is the nonparametric spline with a non increasing constraint added, by taking recursively the means of the previous responses until the trend in negative.
- **Nonparametric Bayesian (*npB*):** Specifies a bayesian hierarchical model which fits a collection of normal cumulative distribution functions centered at the doses as the basis functions.
- **Parametric Logistic (*pL*):** The usual four parameter logistic model fit by weighted least squares to the data. 

**Plot Layers for nonparametric Spline**

- **Point samples:** If dataset consists of multiple samples, this are shown in the plot.
- **Min-max bands (*MMB*):** Linear connection of the maximum values for each dose. Same for minimum values.
- **Empirical viability band (*EVB*):** It is generated by connecting the sides of the step function generated by the adjacent mean lines, which are the horizontal line that at the mean of each consequent pair of responses. It is used to visualize the variability of the samples within this bands.
- **Drug span gradient (*DSG*):** It is the linear regression fit over the mean responses,  the gradient angle $\theta$ is given in the plot.
- **Absolute Efficiency Degree (AED):** Is the angle of the slope of the spline from dose $x_i$ to dose
- **Relative Efficiency Degree (ARD):** Is AED$-\theta$, where $\theta$ is the angle of the DSG. If the angle is in $(0,90)$ say the dose $x_i$ is **Negative Relative Dose (NAD)** and otherwise it is a **Positive Relative Dose (PRD)**.
- **Maximum Effective Dose (MED):** Is the dose that compared to its previous dose, exhibit the most descent in terms of the slope (measured in degrees) of the respective section of the spline function of the fit. This is, $\textrm{MED} = \min ( \textrm{AED} )$.

**Options**

- **Show Statistics:** Show in corner of plot IC, AUC, MSE, by default are shown. 
- **Median/Mean:**  Mean or the median of the responses at that dose, by default it is mean. 
- **Outliers Kept:** If not selected then samples outside of 2 standard deviations from mean are removed from data. 
- **Viability over 100:** If not selected then values above 100 are replaced to be 100.
- **Dose dependent AUC:** If not selected then AUC is calculated with a sequence of integers from 1 to the number of samples as the x-values, else with the doses as the x-values. AUC is the area under the curve fitted by the corresponding model.
- **Spectral choice of IC:** By default set on fifty, this option allows a free choicer of the IC value between zero to one hundred.

Once plot or plots of the data fitted to the specific models can be download in the download section. 